SRM - Grafana Loki health source (#2240)
harness/developer-hub: docs/service-reliability-management/monitored-service/health-source/loki.md

---
title: Grafana Loki
description: Add Grafana Loki health source to a monitored service. 
sidebar_position: 11
---
# Set up a Grafana Loki health source

```mdx-code-block
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
```

:::info note
Currently, this feature is behind the feature flag `SRM_ENABLE_GRAFANA_LOKI_LOGS`. Contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io) to enable the feature.
:::

In Harness, a health source refers to a mapping that establishes a connection between a service within Harness and a service operating in a deployment environment. This deployment environment is under the monitoring of an Application Performance Monitoring (APM) or logging tool. Through this mapping, Harness is able to gather metrics and data from the APM or logging tool, utilizing it to assess the health and status of the respective service within Harness.

## Prerequisites

> - Grafana Loki connector has been added to the Harness platform. To know how to add the Grafana Loki connector, go to [Add Grafana Loki](/docs/platform/Connectors/Monitoring-and-Logging-Systems/connect-to-monitoring-and-logging-systems#add-grafana-loki)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A Grafana Loki connector in the Harness platform. To learn how to add a Grafana Loki connector, go to [Add Grafana Loki](/docs/platform/Connectors/Monitoring-and-Logging-Systems/connect-to-monitoring-and-logging-systems#add-grafana-loki).
```

Author: Updated

> - A monitored service has already been created in the Harness SRM. If you haven't yet created one, go to [Create a monitored service](/docs/service-reliability-management/monitored-service/create-monitored-service)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A monitored service created in the Harness SRM. If you haven't yet created one, go to [Create a monitored service](/docs/service-reliability-management/monitored-service/create-monitored-service).
```

Author: Updated

## Add Grafana Loki health source

To add Grafana Loki as a health source:

1. In your Harness project, go to **Service Reliability** > **Monitored Services**.  
   A list of monitored services is displayed.

> 2. Locate the monitored service for which you want to add Grafana Loki health source, select the three vertical dots next to it, and then select **Edit service**.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Locate the monitored service for which you want to add a Grafana Loki health source, select the three vertical dots next to it, and then select **Edit service**.  
```

Author: Updated

   The Configurations page appears.

3. Go to the **Service** tab, and under **Define Your Sources**, select **+ Add New Health Source**.
   
   The Add New Health Source page appears.

### Define a health source

> On the Define Health Source page of the Add New Health Source page, do the following: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the Define Health Source section of the Add New Health Source page, do the following: 
```

Author: Upadated

1. In **Select health source type**, select **GrafanaLoki**.
   
2. Enter a name for the health source.
   
3. Under **Connect Health Source**, select **Select Connector**.
   
4. In the Create or Select an Existing Connector dialog, select a Grafana Loki connector, and then select **Apply Selected**.

   <details>
   <summary><b>Follow these steps to create a new Grafana Loki connector.</b></summary>

>       Follow these steps to create a new Grafana Loki connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Good catch!

      1.	In the Create or Select an Existing Connector dialog, select **+ New Connector**.

      1. In the **Overview** tab, enter a name for the connector, an optional description, and a tag, and then select **Continue**. If you are going to use multiple providers of the same type, ensure you give each provider a different name.
 

>       2. In the **Headers** tab, enter the following and select **Next**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      2. In the **Headers** tab, enter the following, and select **Next**:
```

>       3. **Base URL** of your Grafana Loki account. By default, Grafana Loki exposes its API on the 3100 port without any authentication. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         - **Base URL** of your Grafana Loki account. By default, Grafana Loki exposes its API on the 3100 port without any authentication. 
```

Author: Corrected

>       4. Optionally, the **Key** and **Value** pair for the Grafana Loki log stream that you want to select in the query. For more information on the log stream selector and key-value pairs, go to [Log stream selector](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/logql/log_queries/#log-stream-selector).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         - Optionally, the **Key** and **Value** pair for the Grafana Loki log stream that you want to select in the query. For more information on the log stream selector and key-value pairs, go to [Log stream selector](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/logql/log_queries/#log-stream-selector).
```

Author: Corrected

   
      5.  Optionally, in the **Parameters** tab, enter the **Key** and **Value** pair.
   

>       6.  In the **Validation Path** tab, select either the **GET** or **POST** request method and enter the **Validation Path**.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      6.  In the **Validation Path** tab, select either the **GET** or **POST** request method, and enter the **Validation Path**.  
```

Author: Updated

   
      7.  If you select **POST**, you must also include the request body. Here's an example of a validation path for a **GET** request: `loki/api/v1/labels`.
   
      8.  In the **Delegates Setup** tab, choose one of the following:

            - **Use any available Delegate**: Harness automatically assigns an available delegate.
            - **Only use Delegates with all of the following tags**: You can enter tags to ensure that Harness selects only the delegates that have been assigned those specific tags.
    
      9.  Select **Save** and **Continue**.
    
    Harness verifies the connection. 
    
      1.  Once the verification is successful, select **Finish**. The Grafana Loki connector is added to the list of connectors.

   </details>

5.  After choosing the connector, select **Apply Selected**.

6.  In **Feature**, **Grafana Loki Logs** is selected by default.
    
7.  Select **Next**.  

    
### Define log configuration settings

1. In the **Configuration** tab of the Add New Health Source page, select **+ Add Query**.  
   
   The Add Query dialog appears.

2. Enter a name for the query and then select **Submit**.  
   

>    The query that you added gets listed under **Logs Group**. The query specification and mapping settings are displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The query that you added is listed under **Logs Group**. The query specification and mapping settings are displayed.
```

Author: Updated

   These settings help you retrieve the desired logs from the Grafana Loki platform and map them to the Harness service. 

#### Define a query
   

> 1. In the **Query** field, enter a log query and select **Run Query** to execute it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the **Query** field, enter a log query, and select **Run Query** to execute it.
```

Author: Updated
